Now I know that create react app already comes with just and other testing tools pre installed.
But I think it's important for us to understand how it works so that we can also build something like
create react app ourselves.
So I'm going to start from scratch and set up a few testing examples for you now.
Just here has great documentation.
Once again with any library you go through their guide and they provide a lot of info as the library
changes you can see that it's version twenty two point four now.
Things might get updated but their principal concepts won't change.
So let's get started by installing just or first of all let's create a project folder.
I'm going to create a project folder called test and we'll just go into that folder and run our usual
NPM in it Dash y to create an NPM package.
And we also want to create a script dot J.S. file and let's open that up.
And our favorite text editor
looking nice and pretty.
Perfect.
Now let's look at package dot Jason and obviously the first step we want to do is run npm install just
and actually let me cancel this.
Remember that just is for development purposes.
We don't really need it as a dependency for our app.
So usually when you install just you want to do npm install
dash dash save death apps.
Let's try that again.
Just remember that with the newer version of NPM when you do npm install jest it assumes the dash dash
save as a dev or as a dependency.
So that's why I didn't do the dash dash safe here.
Now while this is loading let's go into our scripts and change this to the test command and all we need
to do here is run just once it's installed.
Not sure what happened here it looks like a bit of a narrow.
Let's just close this out and run it again.
Now while that's loading let's go into our scripts file and think about what exercise we might want
to incorporate.
And I think having us incorporate a simple google search functionality might be a fun little exercise.
So let's do that.
It looks like everything was added salacious had clear make this a little bit smaller.
And again if we go to package star Jason we see that it's part of the dev dependencies not the dependencies
but def because we did it because we did the dash dash dot save or dash saved def and the script that
J.S. file lets say that we're Google and we have a variable.
This is gonna be a simplified version of their search algorithm.
But the principles are going to be the same.
So let's say that the Google database has an array of all the Web sites that they've indexed.
Let's say the first one is cats dot com obviously is the internet after all.
We also have soup recipes dot com everybody loves soup.
We have flowers dot com and let's just add one more we'll say that we also have animals dot com pretty
basic web sites and these are all the Web site that Google can search for you obviously in real life.
This list might be a little bit bigger
right.
So there is our Google database and you know what.
While we're at it let's just add a few more cat pictures dot com and maybe my favorite
all right.
And I've added these last two because maybe if somebody searches for cats in the Google Chrome browser
well we might want to show them these three links again.
Let's create a function.
And this will just be the Google search function
and this function will take the search
that the user provides.
So whatever they're searching for.
And from there it does a few things.
First that we want to say it's gonna be a very simple algorithm.
Obviously this can be this is way more complicated on Google.
But the idea is we search something and if there is some sort of a match we want to return it.
Let's just say that the Google database is going to get filtered and using the filter function will
say that each item in the database is a Web site that is going to get filtered and all we need to do
is return the Web site
that includes.
So this is let's say cats dot com if it includes whatever the search input was.
Like I said very very nice and basic Google search algorithm and we also want to return these matches
to the user because while that's what Google does.
But let's say that we want to make sure because hypothetically this database can get really really big.
We want to only return the top three results so we can just say lets me make sure I spell that right
first.
We want to say if this dot length is greater than three if we have more than three matches then we'll
just say matches dot slice and just return the first three results otherwise just return the regular
matches make this smaller so we can see.
All right let's test this out and see if it actually works.
I'm going to Rhonda Google search function and let's say that the search input that I'm going to put
in will be soup
and let's just console dialogue.
This to make sure that whatever the output is while we log it into our terminal let me safe.
And again with node we can just run this node script dot J.S.
all right.
Look at that.
I have soup recipes.
If this changes to cats
I get cast off com.
And my favorite cat stock com but not cat pictures dot com because it doesn't match cats.
If we add a nother Web site here let's call if my favorite cats too.
And I only search for Cat
and make sure I add a comma always forget the comma.
Let me clear this and try that again.
All right.
I only get 1 2 and 3 results because we're doing this little slice.
We're only returning the top 3 results.
Awesome.
We've just implemented Google on a simpler scale.
But mind you this is pretty much how Google works.
All right.
So that was fun.
But how can we test this.
Let's say we were Google and we want to make sure that this Google search function works properly because
it's an important function for our app.
Since we have just installed let's run NPM test and see what happens.
NPM test.
It just says no tests found because we haven't run any tests.
But you can see over here that just automatically looks for anything that has either a folder that has
the underscore under score tests and anything inside of it or it's going to look at any file that has
the spec or the test dot J.S. syntax.
By that logic I can just create a new file script dot test dodgy J.S. or I can put spec in here which
is also common and I hit enter and if I run this again
I get a fail.
It says your test suite must contain at least one test.
All right let's clear this.
So how can you write a test for our Google search and we'll get to that in the next video.
But just to make sure that our test passes.
I'll just show you one quick way that we can write unit tests and just.
And that is we have now an IT function in the first parameter of the IT function.
And again this comes with adjust.
But if you download other testing libraries pretty much all of them have this function as well.
Like I said all these libraries have a very similar syntax.
So if you know one you can transition into the other quite easily with a few minor changes.
So the first parameter in here is some sort of a string that will appear here so let's just say this
is a test and then the second parameter is a function which is the test that needs to run in our case.
We don't really have anything but let's save this and run NPM test Whoa look at that we have our very
first test.
That was pretty easy right.
All we did was npm install just and we already have this new IT function and we can run tests and we
see that this is a test passed in one millisecond.
That's a pretty fast test.
Everything is green and nice.
Kind of feels good gives you a nice boost of dopamine all right in the next video.
We're actually gonna start writing some tests for our Google search.
I'll see in the next one.